= activefacts-api

The ActiveFacts API provides the fact-oriented information management API
for the ActiveFacts project.  It is a Ruby DSL for managing constellations
of elementary facts.  Each fact is either existential (a value or an entity),
characteristic (boolean) or binary relational (A rel B). Relational facts are
consistently co-referenced, so you can traverse them efficiently in any
direction. Each constellation maintains constraints over the fact population.

Contrary to object-oriented and relational modeling, fact oriented models
do not use the concept of attributes. Fact types which express one-to-one or
many-to-one relationships are fully mutual relationships between independent
objects, which play the respective roles in the fact relationship. In addition,
all objects are intrinsically identified, not by an external object-id. A
constellation can not contain more than one instance of an object having the
same identification. Accordingly there is no 'new' or 'delete' operations,
just 'assert' and 'retract'. This prevents problems caused by having duplicate
representations of the same object.

The constellation is a universal and liberating data structure.

* http://dataconstellation.com/ActiveFacts/

== INSTALL:

* sudo gem install activefacts-api

== Contributing to activefacts-api
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Clifford Heath. See LICENSE.txt for further details.

